All right the electric circuits that we're going to see in a little bit are going to contain wires but
they're also going to contain electrical components called resistors and resistors although every every
wire has a particular resistance.
The value of the resistors tend to be much higher.
The wires themselves for example copper wire that's a meter long has an overall resistance that is very
very small.
We might want to put other types of resistors in our circuit.
And which values are much bigger than the resistance of the actual wire that's connecting it to the
battery.
Some of these resistors if you're kind of a hobbyist in electronics a lot of the resistors kind of look
like the one shown here in this diagram.
One thing you notice is there are all these color codes on the various resistors.
These are all different values are going to show you how to analyze these different color codes and
how to come up with a value of the resistance of this particular resistor.
And how do you calculate it measured in ohms at the end of the day.
In some cases the actual value of the resistance is simply written right on it.
OK.
Actually you're right it would have been hard to see here but you see the ohms sign over here this one
also this is a 4 ohm resistor and then it also lists some tolerance here.
These are probably some ceramics but we want to be able to look at any type of kind of component if
you look at electrical circuit board you might see some of these types of components on those boards
and these are simply resistance values.
So let's go ahead now and show you how to calculate what is the actual value of the resistance of a
component like this.
All right if I go now and look at some actual resistors you look back on the previous page you'll notice
that some of them had four different colors.
Some of them had five and some of them even have six.
So the way you interpret these now all we need two things First we need to know which each one of these
colors.
What do they mean.
And then we need to know which direction do we actually read do we start on the left side or the right
side and how do we do that.
So let's start with the direction that you would read any of these.
Notice on one side that the bands are closer together and on one side then there's a larger gap.
And then there's more space even for the six band and this is that the left hand side the bands are
closer together.
And as I move toward the right side of the resistor notice the bands are farther apart.
So you always start with the side where the bands are closer together.
So for all of these We're going to start on this side now if we're looking at a four band resistor and
I want to calculate what the resistance is.
It's very very simple.
Some of the bands refer to the digits and the digits will show you what that means in a second image
just kind of get rid of this.
All right.
So let's start with the four band receivers.
I start at the first first one here on the left hand side it's red.
So I follow the dashed line down each color represents a number for red over here.
What do I get.
It represents the number two.
I write the number two over here.
That's the first digit of the resistance.
The next band now is a green.
Go to the second digit.
It represents the number five.
The third.
Now if I'm only looking at a 4 band the third band represents the multiplier.
So it means it's a number that's going to multiply this 25.
So in this case it's orange.
So let's follow down the multiplier color scale is over here.
And if it's orange it represents 1 k 1 k means 1000.
So that's multiplied by 1000 and that's it.
I'm actually with the first three bands if there's only four of them.
That is the value of the resistance and that should be at times a thousand not a 100.
So that means that this guy here is 25 Kila Ohmes.
Now the fourth band here represents the tolerance.
Now if you go to the tolerance color scale which is over here in this case it looks like it's more of
a gold.
So that tells me that plus or minus that's the uncertainty on the value of the resistance is 5 percent.
So that gives you approximately 1250.
Right.
So the value of the resistance if you wanted to write it as 25000 homes plus or minus let's say while
I may just write it all.
Not to worry about the significant figures here I probably wouldn't write an uncertainty with this many
significant figures but just to highlight how you would write data.
Okay.
So that's all there is if there's four band now if there's five bands you got to be a bit more careful.
If there's five bands the first three of them actually refer to the digits.
And then after that the fourth band of the five band color code represents the multiplier and the last
one is a tolerance here or the fifth one.
So let's go ahead and calculate what is the resistance of this five band resistor.
Well the first one is yellow so the yellow first digit means it's four.
It's easy.
The second digit is a blue.
So I go down here that's a 6.
Now I got to be careful now.
The third band because there's five of them the third band doesn't necessarily tell me the multiplier.
It simply refers to the third digit.
Since it's black that's the number 0.
The fourth band now if it's a five band color code the fourth band represents the multiplier in this
case it's orange so it's also a thousand.
So that means it's also kill.
It now well the last one represents the tolerance here.
The tolerance is approximately this doesn't look like gold to me it looks more like brown it looks closer
to plus or minus 1 percent.
All right let's try to figure out what this last one is the 6 band color code.
Now the six band refers to some temperature coefficient and I wouldn't be too concerned about that.
Let's just calculate what the value of the resistance is based on the first five bands.
So again we're going to have the first three are going to represent the digits the fourth one represents
a multiplier and the fifth one will represent a tolerance.
So when we write down for the 6 band one well first start at the red the red represents a two.
What about the next one the next one looks like it's kind of like a purplish that looks like maybe seven
Dimi seven.
The next one is definitely blue so that's a six to 76.
The fourth Bane is the multiplier.
All look what we get here.
Now it's black.
What does that mean.
The multiplier is simply one.
Well that means I'm done.
So that's 276 ohms.
So you could see you can cover a lot of different values of the resistor simply by having these different
color for the multiplier.
So right now I mean having a thousand there makes these resistance is much bigger than this one.
All right now what is the last one the last one here is the tolerance tolerance again this one looks
more like gold to me the gold tolerance is plus or minus 5 percent.
This one here would also have a temperature coefficient which looks kind of not the clearest but it
would be 100 ppm again.
Not 100 percent sure what this means but it's not a big concern as long as we can calculate what the
what the values of the resistances are and what the value of the tolerances were in pretty good shape.